Q1. Which function is used to open a file? What are the different modes of opening a file? Explain each mode
of file opening.

      Opening Files in Python
      In Python, we use the open() method to open files.
      To demonstrate how we open files in Python, let's suppose we have a file named test.txt with the following content.
      file1 = open("test.txt")
      By default, the files are open in read mode (cannot be modified). The code above is equivalent to file1 = open("test.txt", "r")
      Mode	Description
        r	  Open a file for reading. (default)
        w	  Open a file for writing. Creates a new file if it does not exist or truncates the file if it exists.
        x	  Open a file for exclusive creation. If the file already exists, the operation fails.
        a	  Open a file for appending at the end of the file without truncating it. Creates a new file if it does not exist.
        t	  Open in text mode. (default)
        b	  Open in binary mode.
        +	  Open a file for updating (reading and writing)
        
        file2 = open("test.txt")      
        file3 = open("test.txt",'w')
      
      
Q2. Why close() function is used? Why is it important to close a file?

        The close() method closes an open file. 
        You should always close your files, in some cases, due to buffering, changes made to a file may not show until you close the file.

Q3. Write a python program to create a text file. Write ‘I want to become a Data Scientist’ in that file. Then
close the file. Open this file and read the content of the file.

      file1 = open("myfile.txt", "w")
      file1.write("This is my file")
      file1.close()

Q4. Explain the following with python code: 
      read():-
            The read() method returns the specified number of bytes from the file. Default is -1 which means the whole file.
            file1 = open("myfile.txt", "r")
            print(file1.read(20))
      readline():-
            Python readline() method will return a line from the file when called.
            Let us suppose we have a text file with the name example.txt with the following content.

                  Python is the best programming language in the world in 2020
                  Edureka is the biggest Ed-tech platform to learn python
                  Python programming is as easy as writing a program in simple English language 
             file = open("example.txt", "r")
             example1 = file.readline()
             example2 = file.readline(14)
             print(example1)
             print(example2)
      
      readlines():-
            readlines() method will return all the lines in a file in the format of a list where each element is a line in the file.
            example1 = file.readlines()
            print(example1)
            

Q5. Explain why with statement is used with open(). What is the advantage of using with statement and
open() together?

            The with statement works with the open() function to open a file. Unlike open() where you have to close the file with the close() method, the with statement closes the file for you without you telling it to.
            Using with means that the file will be closed as soon as you leave the block. This is beneficial because closing a file is something that can easily be forgotten and ties up resources that you no longer need.

Q6. Explain the write() and writelines() functions. Give a suitable example.
