Q1. what is multithreading in python? hy is it used? Name the module used to handle threads in python.

    Python multithreading enables efficient utilization of the resources as the threads share the data space and memory. Multithreading in Python allows the concurrent and parallel occurrence of various tasks. 
    It causes a reduction in time consumption or response time, thereby increasing the performance.
    The threading module is a high-level implementation of multithreading used to deploy an application in Python. 
    To use multithreading, we need to import the threading module in Python Program. A start() method is used to initiate the activity of a thread.

Q2. why threading module used? write the use of the following functions

    Python multithreading enables efficient utilization of the resources as the threads share the data space and memory. Multithreading in Python allows the concurrent and parallel occurrence of various tasks. 
    It causes a reduction in time consumption or response time, thereby increasing the performance.
    1. activeCount()
        In Python, the method threading.activeCount() from the threading module is used to count the currently active or running threads.
        threading.active_count()
        
    2. currentThread()
        current_thread() is an inbuilt method of the threading module in Python. It is used to return the current Thread object, which corresponds to the caller's thread of control.
    3. enumerate()
        enumerate is a built-in function in python that allows you to keep track of the number of iterations (loops) in a loop. This enumerate object contains a count (from the start, which always defaults to 0) and a value obtained from iterating over the iterable object.
    
    
    
Q3. Explain the following functions

    1. run() - The run() method executes any target function belonging to a given thread object that is now active. 
    2. start() - A start method is the technique used to start child processes in Python. There are three start methods, they are: spawn: start a new Python process. fork: copy a Python process from an existing process. forkserver: new process from which future forked processes will be copied.
    3. join() - The join in Python takes all the elements of an iterable and joins them into a single string. It will return the joined string. You have to specify a string separator that will be used to separate the concatenated string.
    4. isAlive() - The isAlive() method checks whether a thread is still executing. getName() − The getName() method returns the name of a thread. setName() − The setName() method sets the name of a thread.
    
Q4. write a python program to create two threads. Thread one must print the list of squares and thread two must print the list of cubes
    
    import threading
  
    def cal_sqre(num):
        sq_list = []
        for n in num: 
            sq_list.append(n**2)
        print(sq_list)


    def cal_cube(num): 
        cub_list = []
        for n in num:   
            cub_list.append(n**3)
        print(cub_list)
    list1 = [4, 5, 6, 7, 2] 

    cal_sqre(list1)  
    cal_cube(list1)  


Q5. State advantages and disadvantages of multithreading

    Advantages of multithreading:

        1. Enhanced performance by decreased development time
        2. Simplified and streamlined program coding
        3. Improvised GUI responsiveness
        4. Simultaneous and parallelized occurrence of tasks
        5. Better use of cache storage by utilization of resources
        6. Decreased cost of maintenance
        7. Better use of CPU resource

    Disadvantages of multithreading:
    
        1. Complex debugging and testing processes
        2. Overhead switching of context
        3. Increased potential for deadlock occurrence
        4. Increased difficulty level in writing a program
        5. Unpredictable results


Q6. Explain deadlocks and race conditions.

    A most common operational issue with multi-threaded applications, a racing attack is an unwanted situation referring to the incidences when a multithread tool tries to accomplish more than one task at a time. But, the predefined sequencing of that specific program/device will not let it happen as the device/software must follow the default sequence. 
    A deeper understanding of race condition definition reveals that there are multiple race condition types. The key ones are explained here:

        1. Critical ones will influence the terminating stage of a program or device and force it to modify.
        2. Non-critical ones haVe no direct impact on the end stage or action of the concerning devices/resources.
    
    Both share some similarities, such as they both occur in multi-thread solutions and hamper device performance. However, both are not the same.
    A race condition occurs when two threads use the same variable at a given time. Deadlock exists when two threads seek one lock simultaneously.  
    This situation will stop both threads from processing or executing the functions. In racing, two tasks compete with each other and try to complete a task before each other.
    In a deadlock, two processes are waiting and expecting the complementary process to complete the task.
    
