Q1. What is a database? Differentiate between SQL and NoSQL databases.

  A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system. A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS)
  SQL databases are table-based, while NoSQL databases are document, key-value, graph, or wide-column stores. SQL databases are better for multi-row transactions, while NoSQL is better for unstructured data like documents or JSON.
  
Q2. What is DDL? Explain why CREATE, DROP, ALTER, and TRUNCATE are used with an example.

  Data Definition Language (DDL) is a subset of SQL. It is a language for describing data and its relationships in a database.
  Data definition language (DDL) statements let you to perform these tasks: Create, alter, and drop schema objects. Grant and revoke privileges and roles. Analyze information on a table, index, or cluster. Establish auditing options.
  
  1. CREATE TABLE
    The CREATE TABLE command creates a new table in the database.
    CREATE TABLE Persons (
        PersonID int,
        LastName varchar(255),
        FirstName varchar(255),
        Address varchar(255),
        City varchar(255)
    );
    
   2. DROP TABLE
    The DROP TABLE command deletes a table in the database.
    DROP TABLE Persons;
    
   3. ALTER TABLE
    The ALTER TABLE command adds, deletes, or modifies columns in a table.
    The ALTER TABLE command also adds and deletes various constraints in a table.
    ALTER TABLE Persons
    ADD Email varchar(255);
   
   4. TRUNCATE TABLE
    The TRUNCATE TABLE command deletes the data inside a table, but not the table itself.
    TRUNCATE TABLE Persons;
 
Q3. What is DML? Explain INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE with an example.

  Data manipulation language (DML) statements access and manipulate data in existing tables. In the SQL*Plus environment, you can enter a DML statement after the SQL> prompt. In the SQL Developer environment, you can enter a DML statement in the Worksheet.
  
  1. INSERT INTO
      The INSERT INTO command is used to insert new rows in a table.
      INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerName, ContactName, Address, City, PostalCode, Country)
      VALUES ('Cardinal', 'Tom B. Erichsen', 'Skagen 21', 'Stavanger', '4006', 'Norway');
  
  2. UPDATE
      The UPDATE statement is used to modify the existing records in a table.
      UPDATE table_name
      SET column1 = value1, column2 = value2, ...
      WHERE condition;
  
  3. DELETE
      The DELETE statement is used to delete existing records in a table.
      DELETE FROM table_name WHERE condition;
      
Q4. What is DQL? Explain SELECT with an example.

    Data query language (DQL) is part of the base grouping of SQL sub-languages.
    DQL statements are used for performing queries on the data within schema objects. The purpose of DQL commands is to get the schema relation based on the query passed to it. Although often considered part of DML, the SQL SELECT statement is strictly speaking an example of DQL.
    The SELECT TOP clause is used to specify the number of records to return.
    The SELECT TOP clause is useful on large tables with thousands of records. Returning a large number of records can impact performance.
    SELECT column_name(s)
    FROM table_name
    WHERE condition
    LIMIT number;
    
Q5. Explain Primary Key and Foreign Key.

    Primary Key: A primary key is used to ensure that data in the specific column is unique. A column cannot have NULL values. It is either an existing table column or a column that is specifically generated by the database according to a defined sequence. 
    A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between data in two tables. It is a column (or columns) that references a column (most often the primary key) of another table. 
    
Q6. Write a python code to connect MySQL to python. Explain the cursor() and execute() method.

    import mysql.connector
    mydb = mysql.connector.connect(
      host="localhost",
      user="abc",
      password="password"
    )
    mycursor = mydb.cursor()
    mycursor.execute("select * from mytest.mytable")
    for i in mycursor.fetchall():
        print(i)
    
    A cursor is an object which helps to execute the query and fetch the records from the database. The cursor plays a very important role in executing the query. This article will learn some deep information about the execute methods and how to use those methods in python.
    Execute() method executes the given database operation (query or command). The parameters found in the tuple or dictionary params are bound to the variables in the operation. Specify variables using %s or %( name )s parameter style (that is, using format or pyformat style). execute() returns an iterator if multi is True .

Q7. Give the order of execution of SQL clauses in an SQL query.

    1. from - Choose and join tables to get base data.
    2. where - Filters the base data.
    3. group by - Aggregates the base data.
    4. having - Filters the aggregated data.
    5. select - Returns the final data.
    6. order by - Sorts the final data.
    7. limit - Limits the returned data to a row count.

